All right let's do a fun exercise to show you that you've actually just become a better engineer.
Let's have a situation.
Let's say you're working at Twitter and I hope everybody knows Twitter here.
If you're working at Twitter and your boss asked you to build a feature perhaps a feature that allows
anybody to click a button next to their name and retrieve their most recent tweet and they're all just
tweet.
So that is their very first tweet and their very latest tweet based on Big-O notation and what we know
about Big-O notation.
What can we assume about this problem.
Well without coding anything we know that we have to find first and then find Anth or whatever the last
item is.
Now we don't know how the tweets are stored in our database or whichever way Twitter organizes these
things but based on how they are stored we might be able to just grab say the tweets where in an array.
So let's say a constant array and we'll have an array of tweets.
And let's just say we have three tweets here.
There are just three simple tweets will say that this one is the oldest and this one is the most recent.
If we have an array here we know that it's going to take us if the tweets are stored in an array.
It's going to take us while we go array to zero.
We get the the oldest tweet and if we go array array dot lenth minus one we get the three minus 1 so
that is 2 that is 0 1 2.
This is going to be 2.
We're going to get 20.
The most recent tweet and because of the way arrays work we know that both of these operations will
be so one time.
And this one will also be 0 1 or constant time.
So a total of 0 2 operation.
But we again use our rule book and simplify it to Constantine.
So that's great.
We build a nice little simple Twitter application and we can get that information very easily.
But now our boss comes back to us and say hey I want you to compare the dates of tweets.
So I want you to look at every tweet now within each array.
There's an object with each tweet.
Now we have and this person does not tweet a lot.
Three tweets in six years.
But now we have to compare each tweet with all the other tweets and compare their dates.
What is the big goal of this operation.
Well because we're comparing each item in the array with the other.
This should sound familiar.
We're doing nested loops.
So this is going to take oh and squirt time at least with while we know right now.
So we know that this is going to take a lot and fits a person that has a lot of tweets a lot of inputs
in the array.
This operation might cost us a lot of money at Twitter.
So you might want to tell your boss whom we might have an issue here.
We might need to do something else perhaps store the information in a better format or do something
different with our program in order to avoid something that might be inefficient and might be expensive
for the company.
And just by thinking like this now you have this ability to think long term think scalable Cote by the
way as a fun one.
What happens if I ask you what is the what is the operation and what's going to cost us.
If I have a string and I do dot plenteous and javascript that just means what is the length of our string.
That is 20 that means we have 20 items in the string.
What do you think the big O notation of this is and this is a bit of a trick question and something
that you might get asked in an interview because the answer to this is depends it depends on the language
that you're working with.
We need to know how the method works on the strings here and that's built into javascript and you'll
have a different built in method for your language based on how the language is built.
This DOD lenth might go one by one and iterate over each letter and count 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 all
the way until 20 but javascript actually has got length property built in to each string.
So for javascript this Daleth property is just a simple lookup.
It's not a function.
We're not running this function to calculate things.
Instead it's simply a property of an object.
And because of that.
And again if you're not super familiar with javascript this may be a little bit confusing but don't
stress out.
The idea is that this operation in javascript is 0.
Constantine but without knowing how your language works you don't know how this property my work how.
Perhaps if you had a method how that might work but now you have a powerful foundation for pillar to
start thinking about code in a different way.
Start looking at space and time are something that are valuable to us as engineers as resources that
we must be careful.
We don't have infinite amount of resources we have to be careful when we code how we use up these resources.
And that alone makes you a better engineer.
I'll see in the next few.